titre: Plan de désengagement révisé, approuvé par le gouvernement israélien
date: 6 juin 2004
langue: anglais
source: https://www.un.org/unispal/document/auto-insert-209909/
---
3.1 The Gaza Strip 1) The State of Israel will evacuate the Gaza Strip, including all existing Israeli towns and villages, and will redeploy outside the Strip. This will not include military deployment in the area of the border between the Gaza Strip and Egypt ("the Philadelphi Route") as detailed below. 2) Upon completion of this process, there shall no longer be any permanent presence of Israeli security forces in the areas of Gaza Strip territory which have been evacuated. 3.2 The West Bank 3) The State of Israel will evacuate an area in Northern Samaria (Ganim, Kadim, Sa-Nur and Homesh), and all military installations in this area, and will redeploy outside the vacated area. 4) Upon completion of this process, there shall no longer be any permanent presence of Israeli security forces in this area. 5) The move will enable territorial contiguity for Palestinians in the Northern Samaria area. 6) The State of Israel will assist, together with the international community, in improving the transportation infrastructure in the West Bank in order to facilitate the contiguity of Palestinian transportation. 7) The process will facilitate normal life and Palestinian economic and commercial activity in the West Bank. 3.3 The intention is to complete the planned relocation process by the end of 2005. B. The Security Fence : The State of Israel will continue building the Security Fence, in accordance with the relevant decisions of the Government. The route will take into account humanitarian considerations. 3. Security Situation Following the Relocation One. The Gaza Strip : 1) The State of Israel will guard and monitor the external land perimeter of the Gaza Strip, will continue to maintain exclusive authority in Gaza air space, and will continue to exercise security activity in the sea off the coast of the Gaza Strip.
