titre: Al-Muqaddasi, Description de la Syrie et de la Palestine (traduction anglaise de G. Le Strange, Palestine under the Moslems, 1890)
date: vers 985
langue: anglais
source: https://archive.org/stream/palestineundermo00lestuoft/palestineundermo00lestuoft_djvu.txt
---
In the centre of the Platform is the Dome of the Rock, which rises above an octagonal building having four gates, one opposite to each of the flights of steps leading up from the Court. These four are the Kiblah (or southern) Gate ; the Gate of (the Angel) Israfil (to the east) ; the Gate As Sur (or of the Trumpet), to the north ; and the Women's Gate (Bab an Nisa), which last opens towards the west. All these are adorned with gold, and closing each of them is a beautiful door of cedar-wood finely worked in patterns. These last were sent hither by command of the mother of the Khalif Al Muktadir-billah. f Over each of the gates is a porch of marble, wrought with cedar-wood, with brass- work without ; and in this porch, likewise, are doors, but these are unornamented. * Too low an estimate. f He reigned at Baghdad, 908 to 932. I24 PALESTINE UNDER THE MOSLEMS. "Within the building are three concentric colonnades, with columns of the most beautiful marble, polished, that can be seen, and above is a low vaulting. Inside these (colonnades) is the central hall over the Rock ; it is circular, not octagonal, and is surrounded by columns of polished marble supporting circular arches. Built above these, and rising high into the air, is the drum, in which are large windows ; and over the drum is the Dome. The Dome, from the floor up to the pinnacle, which rises into the air, is in height 100 ells. From afar off you may perceive on the summit of the Dome the beautiful pinnacle (set thereon), the size of which is a fathom and a span. The Dome, externally, is completely covered with brass plates gilt, while the building itself, its floor, and its walls, and the drum, both within and with- out, are ornamented with marble and mosaics, after the manner that we shall describe* when speaking of the Mosque of Damascus. The Cupola of the Dome is built in three sections ; the inner is of ornamental panels. Next come iron beams interlaced, set in free, so that the wind may not cause the Cupola to shift ; and the third casing is of wood, on which are fixed the outer plates. Up through the middle of the Cupola goes a passage-way, by which a workman may ascend to the pinnacle for aught that may be wanting, or in order to repair the structure. At the dawn, when the light of the sun first strikes on the Cupola, and the Drum reflects his rays, then is this edifice a marvellous sight to behold, and one such that in all Islam I have never seen the equal ; neither have I heard tell of aught built in pagan times that could rival in grace this Dome of the Rock.
